Hey everyone and thanks for jumping back
into the cryptoverse.
Today we're going to talk about Bitcoin
and we're going to be discussing the
onchain risk metric and how it can be
useful for accumulating Bitcoin and also
recognizing where we're near euphoric
tops. If you guys like the content, make
sure you subscribe to the channel, give
the video a thumbs up, and also check
out the sale on into the cryptoverse
premium at into the cryptoverse.com.
Let's go ahead and jump in. So, I put
out a chart yesterday, a video
yesterday. We've talked about it a
number of times over the years, and the
video was called Bitcoin, a beautiful
chart. And the video discusses this
chart, the Bitcoin percentage of supply
in profit and loss. And the beautiful
thing about this chart is I don't need
to know the news. I don't need to know
any of that stuff. All I want to know is
this cadence that Bitcoin has and how
historically when the Bitcoin percentage
of supply in profit and loss when it
crosses
historically the market bottoms within
about 1 to four months historically
within about 1 to four months if you
look back at every every bare market you
can go look I went through it yesterday
I don't want to I don't want to waste
your time but it It occurs about every 1
to about 1 to 4 months after they cross
within within about that time frame. And
you can see that they have crossed now.
And in 2018 when they crossed or yeah in
2018 or maybe it was actually 2022 they
actually crossed um in in June
and then they uncrossed and then they
crossed again later in the year. So, but
historically within about 1 to four
months of crossing, Bitcoin finds the
low for the market cycle, the market
cycle bottom, if you will, from which
point we would measure the next cycle's
returns from that point. Now, this is a
great chart, but one of the cool things
about this these sorts of charts is that
you can you can normalize them, right,
between zero and one and look at prior
performance and get a risk metric. So
it's essentially just kind of taking
this and normalizing it between 0 and
one. And when you do that, you get a
chart that looks like
this. So this is the risk metric for the
percentage of Bitcoin in supply and
loss. Now in this case,
it's no different qualitatively
than this chart. No different
qualitatively.
What's different? What's really
different because you can see how
similar these charts are. What's really
different is
other onchain risk metrics. Now, again,
it's not a perfect match to this chart,
right? It's not a perfect match, but it
is relatively close when you normalize
prior data between zero and one. So,
what I wanted to do is talk about other
onchain indicators because this is a
beautiful chart. Make no mistake about
it.
And I I had some people say, "Well, the
thumbnail was a different color than
than the website." Well, you can
actually uh change this to light mode.
Unfortunately, by by doing that, I
probably blinded a few people, but we'll
switch it back. What's really cool for
Bitcoin is there's a lot of onchain
indicators. The percentage of supply and
profit and loss is just but one onchain
indicator that we can use. And to go
through some of the other ones, we would
be talking about the MVRV Zcore which
looks like this. the risk metric, the
appeal multiple,
the MVRV score,
the minor cap to thermal cap ratio,
transaction fees, the market cap to
thermal cap ratio,
the terminal price,
the R huddle ratio,
and of course supply and profit
and loss. Now, you might look at some of
these and say, "Well, we didn't actually
go all the way to the top." That's a
great observation. This metric does not
promise that you will go all the way to
the top in every bull market. Just like
in 2019, this metric did not go all the
way to the top. And as I've said
previously, the current bull market or
sorry the current the the last bull
market we had for Bitcoin and the
subsequent bare market in terms of the
business cycle most closely align with
what happened in 2019 and 2021 where we
had a Bitcoin rally and during that
Bitcoin rally Bitcoin Bitcoin dominance
went up and then Bitcoin topped two
months before quantitative tightening
ended both in 2019 and 2025 and there
was also no rotation to altcoins and oh
by the We also had three rate cuts in
2020 or in 2019 just like we had three
rate cuts in 2025. So there's a ton of
similarities between them. And I know
some people say, "Well, it's different."
But everything's been different, right?
I mean, there's been a lot of
differences this cycle. And so we have
to look when was the last time the MBRVZ
score topped out, you know, around 0.5
to 6 risk and it was in the 2019 bull
market. And as I said previously, you
know, if you look at Bitcoin USD, the
only time, right, the only time that it
had this like apathetic top was in 2019.
And furthermore, in that 2019 top, it
was it was there was no rotation into
altcoins, right? No rotation into
altcoins. And that's an important
distinction, right? That's an important
distinction. So, let me load this back
up to see if I can I can get uh total
assets by the Federal Reserve added onto
this chart so you guys can see what I'm
talking about. And I think a lot of you
guys know uh this at this point, but for
the people that are new, you can see how
Bitcoin in 2019 topped right before QT
ended just like in 2025. Bitcoin topped
um right before right around the time
right before QT ended by about two
months or so, right? Bitcoin topped and
then two months later, quantitative
tightening came to an end. there was no
rotation into altcoins and so I think
what Bitcoin is doing right now is
similar to the postappathetic digest
digestion phase in 2019. So, what's
really interesting though is when you
take all of these onchain risk metrics,
right? If you turn them all on,
what I like about it is when you look at
the total onchain risk, it shows you
where we are, right? And when you
include it, when you include everything
on here, the current onchain risk
is.18.1
98. You can see that historically
Bitcoin doesn't spend very much of its
time where the onchain risk is below
0.2.
It does happen and historically it
happens in midterm years which is
exactly where we are right now.
Sometimes it'll happen in like sort of
late midterm years going into the early
part of the pre-election year, the pre-h
having year but that is the most common
time it occurs is in midterm years. And
you can see that this time has not been
different. And so what I would be
looking at with this indicator is to
have it carve out a low. You see how
every bare market this thing carves out
a low that lasts for a few months. Look
for it to carve out a low before the end
of the year and then ideally that then
sets us up for the next bull market.
Now, I think the onchain risk is a great
provides great insight into what's going
on because I can look at this chart and
I just simply don't need to know what
the news is. I don't need to know about
what geopolitical conflicts are
happening. I don't need to know, you
know, what the inflation rate is or or
where initial claims are or what the
president said about Bitcoin last
Tuesday. All I want to know as more of
like a a macro investor is the time
historically to accumulate Bitcoin is as
the onchain risk carves out these lows.
And you can see it looks like that's
what Bitcoin is headed to do. Like it
looks like that is what we're kind of in
the process of beginning right now. And
so in sort of confluence with my other
video that I published about a week ago
where I said that Bitcoin is now in the
third and final stage of the bare
market, I think that this chart supports
that. I think this clearly shows that we
are likely in the third and final stage
of the bare market and that we should
expect Bitcoin probably to bottom out uh
this year. Right? I think it'll happen
this year. Obviously, I've mentioned
October a number of times, and I think
that's the most likely month, but of
course, it could happen at any moment.
And right now, I'm operating under what
I called timebased capitulation, but I
would be willing to pivot to price-based
capitulation if something like that were
to happen. So, I will continue to use
the onchain risk metric. We've had this
published for several years now and it's
done a pretty good job of of identifying
the lows and and the highs, especially
when you have euphoric highs. And
hopefully it'll be useful in in the next
bull market, right? And and maybe in the
next bull market, we'll have a more
euphoric top because the argument is if
this whole move that we just had was
sort of the 2019 and we're kind of in
that post209 top going into early 2020
digestion phase, then what comes after
this bare market could in fact be a more
euphoric one. So, we'll see if that
happens. If you guys want access to this
risk metric, again, you can check that
out at into the cryptoverse.com.
The sale is still going on. Make sure
you guys check that out. Lock and low
rate. Thank you guys for tuning in.
Subscribe. Give the video a thumbs up.
Again, appreciate everyone for
subscribing and getting me to a million
subscribers. And I'll see you guys next
time. Bye.